The standard requirements for a DMSP may be found in Section IX of this RFA.
In addition, the DMSP should specifically address:
• How FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) 11 principles will apply to
the anticipated data sets, software 12, and models 13 to be developed.
• What developed software, data sets, and models will be made available using an
“opensource” licensing arrangement, noting the Software Package Data Exchange
(SPDX) identifier(s) (https://spdx.org/licenses/) when possible, and where deviation in
this arrangement is expected from The Open Source Initiative’s “Open Source
Definition” (https://opensource.org/osd), a specific justification must be provided.
• How best practices in scientific software development will be applied to any development
activities. For more information on best practices, see Better Scientific Software
(https://bssw.io/).

12. How to Prepare a Data Management and Sharing Plan

Data Management and Sharing Plans (DMSPs) must be provided for the proposed
research following DOE and DOE sponsoring office guidelines. If needed, updates to the
DMSP, through the course of the R&D, must be provided to DOE for review and approval. In
general, a DMSP should address the following requirements:
1. Validation and replication of results
The DMSP should describe how scientific data generated in the course of the research
project will be publicly shared and preserved in a timely and fair manner that enables
validation and replication of results. If data will not be publicly shared and preserved

(see "Data sharing limitations"), the DMSP should describe how results could be
validated and replicated.
2. Timely and fair access
The DMSP should provide a plan for making all scientific data displayed in peer-
reviewed scholarly publications resulting from the proposed research open, machine-
readable, and digitally accessible to the public at the time of publication. This includes
data that are displayed in charts, figures, images, etc. In addition, the underlying digital
scientific data used to generate peer-reviewed scholarly publications should be made
freely available and publicly accessible at the time of publication, in accordance with the
principles stated above. The published article should indicate how these data can be
accessed. The DMSP should also provide a timeline for sharing digital scientific data
produced under the DOE funded R&D effort not associated with peer-reviewed scholarly
publications.
3. Data repository selection
The DMSP should specify the use of digital repositories that align, to the extent
practicable, with the National Science and Technology Council document entitled
"Desirable Characteristics of Data Repositories for Federally Funded Research," by the
Subcommittee on Open Science of the National Science and Technology Council, May
2022. 19 In general, DOE does not endorse or require sharing in any specific repository
and encourages researchers to select the repository that is most appropriate for their data
type and discipline, though individual sponsoring research offices may provide specific
guidance or designate a specific repository.
4. Data management and sharing resources
The DMSP should describe the data management and sharing resources that may be
available and used in the course of the proposed research. In particular, a DMSP that
explicitly or implicitly commit data management and sharing resources at a facility
beyond what is conventionally made available to approved users should be accompanied
by written approval from that facility. In determining the resources available for data
management and sharing at DOE scientific user facilities, researchers should consult the
published description of data management resources and practices at that facility and
reference it in the DMSP.
5. Data sharing limitations
The DMSP must address any limitations of scientific data sharing to facilitate the
protection of confidentiality, privacy, business confidential information, and/or security;
avoid negative impact on intellectual property rights, innovation, program and
operational improvements, and U.S. competitiveness; consider maximizing appropriate
sharing through risk-mitigated limited access; preserve the balance between the relative
value of long-term preservation and access and the associated cost and administrative
burden; and otherwise be consistent with all applicable laws, regulations, and DOE orders and policies. Depending on the DOE funding agreement, a contractor or financial award
recipient may have the right to assert copyright to or protect from public release for
certain scientific data products. When contractors or award recipients assert copyright of
scientific data, the DMSP should address licensing requirements and any limitations for
sharing the copyrighted data. When contractors or award recipients assert data
protection, the scientific data will not be shared with the public during the data protection
period.
To improve the discoverability of and attribution for datasets created and used in the
course of research, DOE encourages the citation of publicly available datasets within the
reference section of publications, including using the persistent identifiers associated with the
dataset, such as a Digital Object Identifier (DOI).
In addition, scientific data made publicly available through the implementation of a
DMSP are required to be reported under any applicable reporting requirements to DOE’s Office
of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI). A DOI is a type of persistent identifier that may
be assigned to a dataset prior to reporting to OSTI, e.g., by the repository hosting the data or by a publisher. When there is a DOI is assigned to a dataset, it must be provided within the metadata record submitted to OSTI. In cases where a data record does not already have an associated DOI, OSTI will assign a DOI for the data record.

DMSPs will be reviewed as part of the overall SC research application merit review
process. Applicants are encouraged to consult the SC website for further information and
suggestions for how to structure a DMSP: https://science.osti.gov/funding-opportunities/digital-
data-management.

Suggested Elements!
Data types, sources, and standards
For each type of scientific data that will be used or generated, briefly provide:
A general description of the nature and scope of the data, including its modality (e.g. text, imaging, genomic, structured, …) and aggregation (e.g. individual, aggregate, summarized, …)
The amount of data processing and any data standards or formats used
The anticipated amount or size of the data and timeline for production
Key metadata and associated documentation that will facilitate data interpretation
Related tools, software, and code         
Describe any code, software, or specialized tools needed to make use of the data, including to support validation and replication of scientific results, and how those code, software, or tools can be accessed.
Data access and reuse considerations
Describe any applicable factors that limit public sharing of the used or generated scientific data. Consider opportunities to maximize appropriate sharing through risk-mitigated limited access. Applicable factors may include, but are not limited to:
Targeted reuse cases for the scientific community or the broader public
Protection of confidentiality, privacy, business confidential information, and/or security
Negative impacts on intellectual property rights, innovation, program and operational improvements, and U.S. competitiveness
Preserving the balance between the relative value of long-term preservation and access and the associated cost and administrative burden
Consistency with all applicable laws, regulations, and DOE orders and policies
Data security, preservation, and sharing
Provide plans and timelines for data security, preservation, and appropriate sharing, which may include:
A description of measures to ensure data security and integrity, such as protections against unauthorized access, corruption, or loss
A description of the shared subset(s) or reduced elements of the total data for each data type
Any data repositories that will be used to share the data, including a brief description of how each repository aligns with the NSTC "Desirable Characteristics of Data Repositories for Federally Funded Research" guidance
How persistent identifiers will be used to make the data more findable and reusable
Timelines for sharing any data not associated with a scientific publication
Oversight of data management and sharing
Describe how the implementation of the DMSP scope for the relevant project will be monitored and managed, including the frequency of oversight and the responsibilities of individuals or groups who participate in management.